# OpSMOS Research Project

Welcome to the OpSMOS Research Project repository. This project focuses on developing methods for creating and analyzing cartographic products that enhance DGT's work within the SGIFR framework. 
The project is a collaboration between DGT and ISA/ULisboa, aiming to improve mapping methodologies for rural-urban interfaces and study land use evolution over time.

## Research Objectives

The project targets the following areas:
- **Refinement and Harmonization**: Enhancing the accuracy of structural and circumstantial maps for rural-urban interfaces.
- **Spatiotemporal Analysis**: Analyzing land use dynamics from 1995 to 2018, focusing on agricultural buffer zones.
  
## Repository Structure

### Data
- **Purpose**: Contains geospatial data used for analysis and modeling.

### Functions
- **Purpose**: Houses all reusable functions utilized throughout the project.

### Main_Script
- **Purpose**: Contains the core script

### MyPlugin
- **Purpose**: Contains the custom QGIS plugin developed for this project, including essential Python files and supporting modules.

### Output
- **Purpose**: Stores output files generated by the scripts and plugin.
- **Files**:
decision_table1.csv — First decision table output.
decision_table2.csv — Second decision table output.
Draw_lines_script.py — A Python script for visualizing lines between selected points.

### MyPlugin.zip — Packaged version of the QGIS plugin for installation.

### README
- **README.md:** You are currently reading the README file, which provides an overview of the repository's contents and project background.

## Usage Instructions

To use this project, follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository:
git clone [here]([https://github.com/azizatanfous/Direct_Indirect_Interface.git])

2.Install Dependencies: Ensure all necessary packages are installed by running:

 pip install -r requirements.txt

3. Run the Main Script:
The main functionality is handled by Main_Script/, and outputs are saved in the Output/ folder.

python Main_Script/main_script.py

4. QGIS Plugin Installation:

 - Unzip the MyPlugin.zip file inside the QGIS plugins directory.

 -  Activate the plugin via Plugins > Manage and Install Plugins in QGIS.

## Results
The Output/ folder stores the decision tables, visualization scripts, and packaged plugin for easy deployment.

## Contributing

We welcome contributions to improve the project. If you have any suggestions, bug fixes, or additional features, please submit a pull request. You can also open an issue for any discussions or questions.


## Authors

- Aziza Ben Tanfous — Master's Student in Green Data Science at Ulisboa
